---
title: Ruby Processing & TicTacToe, gSchool Week 5
date: 2013-10-11 15:04 UTC
tags: reflections
---

> Rest and be thankful. - *William Wordsworth*

If you've known me for more than a few months, by now you know my tendency work
(a lot). Because of years of constantly working, I have conditioned my mind to
always be looking for work to do. Even on my days off, or during the evening of
a regular work day - I have this pull to be back on my computer or reading work
related articles.

Honestly, it's a terrible habit.

The first step towards improvement is admitting you have a problem, right? :)
Thankfully, I admitted this fault of mine months ago, and so I've been on a slow
progression towards finding healthy balance.

I bring all of this up, because this week was a *focus week* here at gSchool.
Basically, in a nutshell, it was an opportunity for the larger group to split
into focus groups that had a primary agenda. One group spent their week focusing
on the fundamentals and ironing our rough spots in the process that is learning
to write applications using Ruby. The second group went back over previous
projects, emphasizing proper methodologies in Object Oriented programming. The
group that I was a part of had the opportunity to build some Tic Tac Toe applications
using [Ruby Processing](https://github.com/jashkenas/ruby-processing).

From a technical standpoint, we worked on MVC architecture a bit and got to get
more practice in pair programming. Our code isn't the most beautiful, and we
don't really have effective tests - but [you can check it out
here](http://github.com/thewatts).

So why was this focus week so important that I felt the need to share my work
tendencies? Because focus week wasn't just about learning things, *it was about
resting*.

We didn't have this huge agenda, or a project deadline looming in front of us.
We just got to program and work on things at an easy pace. *And I'm so very
thankful for it*. I was able to go home, and just *be*. To walk in the door, 
spend time with my bride, relax, and just *be*.

Granted, I failed at getting home as early as I should have - but hey, I now
know what's possible during these focus weeks, and I can adjust as needed during
the next one.

If your tendencies are like mine - take a step back, rest (*truly rest*), and be
thankful.




